# theorybase
Research and Information tool for Creating Music and Fueling Inspiration.
For my project I want to make a music database that serves as a tool for younger musicians trying to create a certain type of sound, or trying to fuel their inspiration. A lot of music knowledge in books is tailored to older generations. The information is helpful, but the techniques listed are only for classical artists, or older artists. Of course I find it interesting to learn which type of fragment voicing Claude Debussy uses, or which type of Jazz pianist Erik Satie is, but what if I wanted to model my craft after Justin Bieber? What if my favorite pianist was Coldplay? I would have no resources to turn to because none of the books talk about modern artists. Older musicians will call younger fans of music lazy for not studying music theory, but almost none of the music theory resources out there are for my generation. With a tool more tailored to my age group I won’t only have something that makes research easier for me, but something that finally gives more of an incentive to younger musicians to learn music theory. My first idea of what feature this software will have is a genre feature. The user will enter a genre and the output will list out information about the genre. This would include key signature, scales, instruments, average band members, techniques, and playing styles etc. What makes this information so valuable is that for the most part the genre’s listed will be either niche, abstract, or something popular with a younger generation. I would also have a function where you could do an inverse search. You could search an instrument you have, or a scale you’re familiar with and it would show compatible genres. To help me create this project I will model my software after similar github database projects. Those project urls can be found later in this document. For this project I will only work in a group of one, but to create the most value of this tool I will ask people online if they’re passionate about any niche genres. I’ll try to include their genres in my tool to make sure it’s helpful for other people and not just me. My project will be called Theorybase. 
